This is Jocco podcast number 130.
With echo Charles and me, Jocco Willink.
Good evening, echo. Good evening.
Caesar, when he perceived that the seventh legion which stood close by him was also hard
pressed by the enemy, directed the tribunes of the soldiers to affect a junction of the legions
gradually and make their charge upon the enemy with a double front, which having been
done since they brought assistance to the one to the other, nor feared less, their rear
should be surrounded by the enemy.
They began to stand their ground more boldly and to fight more courageously.
In the meantime, the soldiers of the two legions which had been in the rear of the army as
a guard for the baggage train upon the battle being reported to them, quickened their
pace and were seen by the enemy on top of the hill.
And Titus having gained possession of the camp of the enemy and observed from higher ground
what was going on in our camp sent the tenth legion as a relief to our men who, when they
had learned from the flight of the horses and the settlers in what position the affair
was and in how great danger the camp and the Legion and the commander were involved left
undone nothing to dispatch.
By their arrival, so great a change of matters was made that are men, even those who had fallen
down exhausted with wounds, leaned on their shields and renewed the fight.
And the camp retainers, though unarmed, seeing the enemy completely dismayed, attacked
them, though they were armed.
The horsemen too, that they might, by their valor, blot the disgrace of their flight, thrust
themselves before the Legionary soldiers in all parts of the battle.
And the enemy, even in the last hope of safety, displayed such great courage that when
the foremost of them had fallen, the next stood upon those who were prostrate and fought
from on top of their bodies.
When these were overthrown and their corpses heaped up together, those who survived cast
their weapons against our men as from a mound and returned our darts which had fallen
short between our armies so that it ought not to be concluded.
That men of such great courage had indiddishously dared to pass a very broad river,
a send very high banks and come to a very disinventageous place since their greatness
of spirit had rendered these actions easy, although in themselves very difficult.
So war is eternal and some things do not change and in war we see the brutal examples of
savagery and we also see the courage and sacrifice that's hard to find anywhere else,
like in that passage right there unarmed men attacking the enemy.
And even the enemy showing courage, climbing on top of stacked bodies of their brethren
to gain a little bit of high ground.
Think about that gaining the high ground by climbing on the backs of your fallen comrades.
Now that is war and that account of war is from the book The Gallic Wars which was written
by Julius Caesar himself, although he refers to himself in the third person.
And that war lasted from around 58 BC to 50 BC, 8 years of fighting between the Gauls
who were a Celtic race of people in what is now France and Belgium, I guess you'd say
Celtic.
And of course the Romans were known for their military strength and in the future I'm
sure we'll go a little bit deeper into some of Caesar's writing.
Today we're going to look more at an overall assessment and instruction really about the
Roman legions which as I said our known as an incredibly powerful military fighting force
that conquered much of Europe and parts of Africa and the Middle East over time.
And the writing that we're looking at today comes from a guy by the name of the Gettius.
Now his full name was Publius, Flavius, Vigettius, Renoptus.
But thankfully we can just refer to him as the Gettius, not much is known about him.
It's actually not even known 100% if a Gettius was actually in the military.
It seems as if he was and even if he was, it's likely that he didn't have any great
stature or rank inside the Roman military.
But he did capture some incredibly important information and he called the Epidimal
Ray Militarus which translates basically into the Epidimal of the Art of War.
Sometimes it's also called the day Ray Militaria which means on matters of the military.
And the book is estimated to have been written around 430 AD so it's several hundred years
after Caesar's reign.
This book that hero became a guide for warfare throughout the Middle Ages.
And interestingly this is even it stayed even after we had gunpowder.
And it was carried often times by general officers and their staff throughout Europe
and there are even reports that George Washington carried an annotated copy with him
which as I dug into it may or may not be completely true but Adam Minimum.
Adam Minimum, he paraphrased Vigettius's book in his first addressed to Congress in 1790
when he said to be prepared for war is one of the most effectual means of preserving peace.
So Vigettius put this information together through Adam Minimum keen observation of how
the Roman legions and the Roman military worked.
And the book is to the test of time so I think we might as well see what we can get out
of it.
What do you think?
Yes sir.
A gree.
Check.
It starts off strong.
We'll say that.
It starts off right here.
Victory in war does not depend entirely upon numbers or mere courage, only skill and discipline
will ensure it.
It's common theme.
We find that the Romans owed the conquest of the world to no other cause than their
continual military training, exact observance of discipline in their camps and unwearied
cultivation of other arts of war.
Does this mean I'm just going to be talking about discipline for the next as long as I'm alive?
Yes.
It's entirely possible, isn't it?
It's interesting that he says it's important than just mere, more important than just
mere courage.
It encourages important, but there's something more important discipline.
Yes.
That's skill.
And skill.
You like that part.
Yes.
OK.
Romans.
They thoroughly understood the importance of hardening them.
So we're these talking about what the Romans are talking about the Romans.
That's the day.
They thoroughly understood the importance of hardening them by continual practice and of
training them to every maneuver that might happen in the line and in action.
How were they less strict in punishing idolness and sloth?
See sometimes I stick up for like our generation or being modern, saying like, no, you
know, we're kind of hardcore too.
But then I read stuff like that and I kind of wonder.
I kind of wonder.
The courage of a soldier is heightened by his knowledge of his profession.
He only wants an opportunity to execute what is he is convinced he has been perfectly
taught.
So that makes sense.
I didn't interview a little while ago.
And as it hasn't come out yet, it was with MPR, NPR, National Public Radio.
But he was asking me.
He had heard me saying in an interview that like I wanted to go to war.
And he was kind of surprised about that.
But that's exactly what this is talking about.
I'm trained and you're convinced that you've been taught well and then you want to go
get after it, especially when you're young.
You have nothing to lose.
Back to the book, a handful of men in NERD to war precede to certain victory while on the
contrary, numerous armies of raw and undisciplined troops are but multitudes of men drag
to the slaughter.
No big deal.
Multitudes of undisciplined men, you're just getting dragged to the slaughter.
That's life.
Oh, and here's another point.
For it is certain that the less a man is acquainted with the sweets of life, the less
reason he has to be afraid of death.
Interesting.
The young soldier, therefore, ought to have a lively eye.
Oh, this is he's just talking about what the young recruits should be like, what kind
of qualities they're supposed to have.
The young soldier, therefore, ought to have a lively eye should carry his head erect,
his chest and shoulders be broad.
His shoulders muscular and brawny.
His fingers long, his arms strong, and his waist, small.
Going back to posture.
Remember what that up with Jordan B. Peterson?
He's got that chaplain as a book stand up straight with your shoulders back.
I'm like, that's how you get indoctrinated in the military.
That's been going on since the Roman times.
There's something to it.
I'm here to tell you.
Talking more about the recruits, he says, they should be taught the use of their arms
by constant and daily exercise.
But this essential custom has long been abolished by the relaxation introduced by a long
peace.
Except that when things get easy.
And again, working with business all the time, it's real easy when the times are good.
Like the economies good.
Right now, the economy is good.
So people are just making money and everything is good.
They don't train as hard, they don't prepare as much.
Happens in everything.
Yeah, because we kind of subconscious what seems like it anyway.
Subconsciously rely on that kind of push.
Like the stress will push you.
The economy is not good.
It's like, oh, I kind of pushed you to like, oh, we got to be sure.
We don't work or whatever.
And it kind of gives you some people.
I think you actually do this.
Some people perform better under pressure.
The reason I say you, because you'll have a video to make, let's say.
And if there's no deadline, let's just say there's no real.
There's no real hope for urgency.
I'm not expecting to see that.
But then sometimes there's a deadline like for a master video.
And there comes the deadline and boom, there's the video.
Midnight, one o'clock in the morning into my email.
You need that.
You need that structure and discipline.
Younger.
It does help.
Yeah.
100%.
Yeah, even time stuff like if you're like, hey, meet me at around seven.
That's not good.
Yeah, well, it'll be around whatever time.
You might as well said, show up when you want.
I love the dice a little bit today, because I said 1230.
Yes, did you notice that?
Yes.
To me, when you put a number, I just assume that's the number.
Yeah, that's how.
That's the style.
Yeah.
That's probably good.
You're right.
I think you do pretty good with being on time for me, actually.
Yeah.
Well, I'm going to say you're battening pretty good average.
Did you see someone asked how they could get your job?
Yes.
Yeah.
There you go.
I guess we know that.
Yeah, you got to do the price on your head.
Yeah.
Someone else maybe they can be on time.
That's really that's how they're required.
Press record the entire.
There you go.
You little money.
All right.
Now, he's talking a little bit about a initial training going back to the book.
The first thing the soldiers are to be taught is the military step, which can only
be acquired by constant practice of marching quick and together.
Nor is anything of more consequence either on the march or in the line, than they should
keep their ranks with the greatest exactness for troops who march in irregular and disorderly
manner are always in great danger of being defeated.
And I read that part so I could read this part.
They should march with the common military step 20 miles in five summer hours and with
full step, which is quicker 24 miles in the same number of hours.
So these guys can march.
These guys can march and we've talked a lot about foot patrols.
And in the in the seal teams, there's something called a forced march, which is like you're
on a road.
There's no threat.
You're just marching and you're trying to move from point eight to point B. Don't
do a lot of that in the seal teams.
You don't even do it really much in the, well, I can't say that.
But there's a difference.
That's a forced march.
And then there's patrolling where you're tactical and you're scanning your field to
fire.
These guys are talking about a forced road march.
You're just on the road.
It's basically your, you're going as fast as you can.
So you're, it's just like, maybe what you don't have a rider.
I mean, in your case.
Yeah, we'll never ride for whatever reason.
Well, in the seal teams, we usually add a ride.
That's what you don't do.
Yeah, that's what we don't do.
Gotcha.
Oh, here's a good one.
Learn to swim every young soldier without exception should in the summer months be taught
to swim for it is sometimes impossible to pass rivers on bridges, but the flying and pursuing
army, both are often obliged to swim over them.
A sudden melting of snow or fall of rain often makes them overflow their banks.
And in such a situation, the danger is as great from ignorance in swimming as from the
enemy.
I kind of take it for granted that people know how to swim, but it is not true.
And when I figured that out when I went to Navy Bootcamp, because you'd think if you were
joining the Navy, you'd know how to swim.
No, not true.
Yeah.
Not true at all.
People did not know a decent amount of people.
Did not know how to swim.
Yeah, I'm with you.
I'm sure you don't come from Kui where everyone knows how to swim.
Even at like two years old people, you know, how to swim, because you're on the island.
Yeah, it's all.
But yeah, man, there's people.
Straight up.
You haven't even seen the water.
You know, like the ocean or whatever.
Well, there's definitely people that haven't seen the ocean.
Yeah.
I mean, when I went to, when I went to Sealtrain, there was guys that had never been to the
ocean before.
Yeah.
They were from Iowa.
You know, no, they just salt-wise the water tastes salty.
Yeah.
So yeah.
Parents, teacher, kids out of swim.
They have those good programs now where they do the little floating programs.
So like even a little baby can float themselves and stuff.
But you can look that up on YouTube and learn how to teach you.
You're like baby to swim.
Yes.
And be carefree.
Yeah.
I'm throwing the, what's that call?
The safety tip.
Yeah.
That's, you've got to, you know, when you're doing anything in the water, you've got to be
careful, really careful.
Yeah.
Even when you're training in the water, you've got to be really careful.
One up, one down is the rule.
Like if one person's doing some training, someone's got to stand there and watch
him.
Make sure that they're safe.
But yeah.
If you don't know, swim, they'll never swim.
Back to the book.
No state can either be happy or secure that is remiss and negligent in the discipline of
its troops.
For it is not profusion of riches or excess of luxury that can influence our enemies
to court or respect us.
This can only be affected by the terror of our arms.
It is an observation of Kato that misconduct in the common affairs of life may be retrieved,
but that it is quite otherwise in war where errors are fatal and without remedy and are
followed by immediate punishment.
For the consequences of engaging an enemy without skill or courage, is that part of the
army is left on the field of battle and those who remain received such an impression
from their defeat that they dare not afterwards look the enemy in the face.
It's powerful stuff right there.
This can only be affected by the terror of our arms.
It's underlying there's little underlying threats of violence and everything that
passions say everything but they're just they're all.
Let me let me break down a little bit more because I don't want to make a broad statement
about the whole world.
But when I was a young guy in a sea of opaltoon, it was definitely underlying threats
of violence.
Even with a big smile or face, even amongst total bros, the thing that's underlying
is like, well, you know, if this is going down, you know, we know how that could go.
So yeah, have the discipline.
Train.
I don't know why I'm finding this book like almost comical in how just on point it is with
everything I think about.
I kind of noticed that.
Yeah, I'm just I mean the whole opening thing.
The whole opening, the opening onslaught of discipline.
You know, I was straight up into it.
So back to the book to a custom soldiers to carry burdens is also an essential part of
discipline.
Recruiting particular should be obliged frequently to carry a weight of not less than 60
pounds exclusive of their arms and to march with it in the ranks.
This is because on difficult expeditions, they often find themselves under the necessity
of carrying their provisions as well as their arms.
Nor will they find this troublesome when in nerd to it by custom which makes everything
easy.
Boom, there you go.
Where are the gear that you're where the gear that you're going to fight with?
Get used to it.
I used to talk about this with like discipline equals freedom.
The whole idea of it.
I'd say if you have a discipline to wear your gear all the time, then you'll have freedom
movement when you need it.
Right.
You know, and I kind of felt like that was a stretch.
Is that seem like a stretch?
Well, no, no, no more.
And anymore, this kind of, yeah, back into the non-stretch zone.
Yeah, yeah, for sure.
Because like, yeah, okay, so you have all your gear on, right?
And Jody Middick was kind of talking about this.
I think when you was like, oh man, you know, like, it was just a pain in the ass to wear
and all this stuff.
That feeling, you know, that's our real feeling.
Man, this is a pain.
Oh, this gear, this digging into my, you know, arm not used to it or kind of thing, but
man, you get a guy who's really used to it by that's not even a factor.
He's free to do that.
There's two things that happens.
Number one, you get used to it.
Number two, you figure out your gear so that your gear works properly.
Yeah, so it's like, yeah, you can.
Because your gear when you first put it on no matter you go to the best gear store in
the world and you buy gear and it's not going to fit you to quite right.
You have to make little modifications.
You have to adjust it.
You have to put the weight somewhere else.
Now in football, you wouldn't always wear your gear and practice, right?
It was pretty designated.
Like, depending on the day, you know, so, you know, two days, you have full gear, you know,
two days, you have just helmets and shoulder pads or whatever.
But yeah, you were, you were supposed to.
One guy's would like maybe not wear their mouthpiece or something like that, but it'd
be rare.
I think in the NFL, like, they won't wear their thigh pads or their hip.
And that's just because it's a pain.
I don't know.
I can't really speak for.
I think I know that guys who run a lot and if you take out your thigh pads and your
hip protectors and stuff, it helps you run for sure.
But you run that risk.
And you should train with it.
You should train with it.
But here's the thing, though.
If there's a rule, because sometimes even in the game, they just won't wear it.
They just simply won't wear it.
But you do run the risk.
Like, if you get what's called a hip pointer, there's an injury called a hip pointer.
It's basically your external bleaks.
They kind of overlap your hip bone, right?
And when a helmet or something hits that and crushes your external bleak against your
hip bones called a hip pointer.
And it's a debilitating painful injury that kind of wear it, even in everyday life, you're
out of the game.
And I've had it before.
So hip protectors will help against that.
So you run that risk.
So it's up to you, man.
I mean, I think in college, I know in high school, it's a rule.
You've got to wear a hip, but I think in the NFL you don't have to.
Well, that's good.
I think the overall point is, and it sounds like the football is on board with it.
Train how you fight.
Yeah.
We're the gear.
Train how you fight.
But it's tough to go in, and this goes for any context that you're even, and really
in the military, but it's almost like so obvious in the military that it's a given, where
you can't train exactly how you fight.
Yeah, sure.
Yeah.
And exactly, it's like I said, really.
I used to tell guys that.
I used to be like, hey, unfortunately, unfortunately, I can't put guys out here to actually
kill you.
You do the wrong way.
Yeah, like you really want to do.
Same thing for football as it turns out, where you can't just have guys going live
five minutes a week.
You know, on somebody hip pointers or you be, oh, yeah.
Yeah.
Actually, he's so he goes on to talk about, we talk about some slack.
You're going back to the book.
But negligence and sloth having by degrees introduced a total relaxation of discipline.
The soldiers began to think they're on or too heavy as they seldom put it on.
They first requested leave from the Emperor to lay aside the keras and afterwards the helmet
and consequence of this are troops in their engagements with the Goths.
We're often overwhelmed with their showers of arrows.
So there you go.
Start taking out a little shortcut.
And like I always says, it's bi-pe greasep.
Like no one just wakes up on the morning and says, I'm going to be weaker now.
Yeah, yeah.
It's over the floor.
It's just, they just start to decay just a little bit.
Yeah.
Take a little shortcut.
You know, here's a, here's a, here's a workout.
A workout tip.
Jocos workout tips.
I'm serious.
This is like something that goes through my head.
When I'm doing some exercise, let's say it's squat day.
And let's say it's, I'm doing the 20 reps squats, which is just painful.
Yes.
And I have that thought in my head where sometimes you know, I go out and you know what?
Just I'll just do 16 today.
Yeah.
Because you know, like, I mean, I worked really hard yesterday and I'm kind of tired.
I'm still doing it until I did.
Yeah.
You know, I'm a bubble, I hear myself saying that.
I always think like that's the, that's the first step down down the slippery slope.
Okay.
And I'm not going to do it.
I'm not going to do it.
Have you ever, I have you ever skipped it?
Come on.
Be real.
Have you ever, have you ever skipped it?
Like, you know, those doubts, not doubts, but those, those thoughts of, hey, let me, let me slack.
Not skipping workout.
I mean, have you ever given it?
The only time where I've been like, you know what, I'm not finishing this workout is like
I'll hurt something.
Offer.
And this way, and I've done it where I've done it where I haven't done it.
That's a lesson learned.
Like, I've been like, I remember one time on a squatting and I felt a little, you know, you
know, you get a little twinge in your back.
Yeah.
I got one of those and then I kept going and then I was debilitated.
I was like, I was like, not good.
But generally, if, yeah, I know, because it's this, that's why I'm saying this.
That little conversation right there is a good conversation.
Have for yourself because I think about, I think about that little, you just give
that little bit of slack that time and it's not good.
You know, it's like that, just in my mind, I'm thinking that leads to more slack right
there.
It does.
That leads to a little bit more slack.
Because next time, you're going to feel that way at 15 reps instead of 16.
Yeah, because you've, even if it's subconsciously, you established a new little, a
person that's a precedent which is kind of just the standard.
Just a little bit.
Yeah, it's exactly.
So it's like, it's different if you're undefeated.
Right.
If you're undefeated, you either undefeated or you're not undefeated kind of thing.
Once you're defeated, then you're kind of like, okay, you know, let it sneak in there.
Yeah.
It's part of you now.
I got to say I'm defeated.
I'm like, I do the, I do the met kind at the end.
You know, I live and do met kind and it's, you know, good.
And I will also straight up, I'll be honest that it doesn't happen very often.
I mean, I talk a lot of trash water, but it doesn't happen very often.
But oh, yeah, there's times where it'll be like, oh, well, that work out was pretty solid.
I'll do, I'll make deals.
That makes me, that makes me mad.
That makes me mad.
And I don't like that.
Actually hanging with you made me give me that mindset, which is a mindset I simply
did not have.
Go deaf core.
No, but you know how you said it makes you mad.
Like, I never had that feeling.
Never had that feeling like, oh, I'm making it.
I just never thought of it that way.
Like not even a little bit.
Do you mean consider thinking it that way?
But now, yeah, when I feel it, like, oh, maybe I'll do tomorrow.
Really don't feel, I actually have that response.
Where you kind of get mad at it at yourself trying to think, like you're split into
people.
That's a positive thing.
It is.
It helps.
That's the death core right there.
Straight up.
Check.
All right.
Let's see.
Going back to the book, it was a constant custom among the old Romans to exercise
both cavalry and infantry three times a month by marches of a certain length.
The foot were obliged to march completely armed.
The distance of 10 miles from the camp and return in the most exact order and with the
military step, which they changed and quickened on some part of the march.
They made these marches not in plain and even ground only, but both cavalry and infantry were
ordered into difficult and uneven places and to ascend or descend mountains to prepare
them for all kinds of accidents and familiarize them with the different maneuvers that
various situations of a country may require.
It has put some miles in.
But again, the reason that I wanted to mention that part is it's not just about wearing
the gear, it's trying to simulate as closely as you can to the situation that you're going
to be in.
Same thing with anything, same thing with sports, same thing with business when you're
training someone, when you're training someone for business, put them in that situation
that they as close as you can to what they're going to be in.
Here it continues to enumerate the different nations.
So formidable of old, all which now are subject to the Romans would be tedious.
So he's saying like, we beat down so many people we can't, but I'm going to take the time
to talk about them all.
But the security established by long peace has altered their dispositions, drawn them
off from military to civil pursuits and infused into them a love of idolness and ease.
Again, this guy's right in several hundred years after Caesar.
So he's talking about the slippery slope.
Hence a relaxation of military discipline, insensibly ensued, then in a collective it and
it sunk at last into entire oblivion.
So he's watching the fall of the Roman Empire and where does it start?
It's a discipline in the troops, boom, I'll get the kick out of this button.
The necessity therefore of discipline cannot be too often incoated as well as the strict
attention, requisite in the choice and training of new levees.
Don't you can't ever, can't ever let up the psyche, can't ever say it's okay not to do
that rep.
That's, in the book he goes into a long description of how they were organized, like
man by man, troop by troop, not going to go too deep into that.
One of the things he does mention in that section is about how when they stopped doing a good
job replacing the soldiers that were leaving, you know, you're not keeping, you're not
keeping people coming in, not keeping them trained up.
This is a good thing.
I think this is good for any team situation.
The expense of keeping up good or bad troops is the same.
But it depends wholly on you.
So I think that's a good statement.
You got some good members on your team, you got some bad members on the team.
It cost you the same to keep them.
You got to decide how you're going to manage that situation.
Back to the book.
In former times, the discipline was so strict that the tribunes or officers not only
cause the troops under their command to be exercised daily in their presence, but were
themselves so perfect in their military exercise as to set them by example.
Something does so much honor to the abilities or application of the tribune as the appearance
and discipline of the soldiers.
When their apparel is neat and clean, their arms bright and in good order and when they
perform their exercises and evolutions with the austerity.
No big deal.
More.
He's talking about just keeping the elements organized in a combat situation.
Lest the soldiers in the confusion of battle should be separated from their comrades
every cohort had its shield painted in a manner peculiar to itself.
The name of each soldier was also written on a shield together with the number of the
cohort and century to which he belonged.
I had a note in here about how we would name our vehicles.
So you'd know what vehicle to get into.
The armies would have names.
So you'd know what vehicle was yours.
Well, the one called Zev.
Yes, they had all kinds of names for him.
My first deployment to Iraq.
They were named after the movie.
Oh, movie.
They were named after a movie.
It's about bowling, but it's not the big lebaoski.
Kingpin.
It was kingpin.
That was the name.
The other one.
It was one of the homivies was called Bigger.
Now what's interesting is the homivies originally were not named.
They were numbered.
One, two, three, four, five, six and that seems like a pretty square to weigh like a
jockel would be good with that.
Just give them a number.
Here's a problem with it.
When you're going on an operation, you go into a building to do a take down of a building.
The vehicles move around.
They got to adjust.
And when you come back out, they might not necessarily be an orger numerically.
So guys, but guys would go one, two, three.
Oh, that's my vehicle.
So they're getting along vehicle, which might not seem like a big deal.
But then when you're trying to get a head count and someone's not the right vehicle,
then the vehicle commander's like, I'm supposed to have eight guys and I only have seven.
Now we're sitting on the X trying to get a head count.
And that's problematic.
If you know what your name of your vehicle is, you confirm it.
They're written on the side.
Nice big letters.
Yeah.
Looking for big earn.
You see it?
You jump in.
It makes sense with the numbers.
Because I think just by nature, we assign numbers to things for all kinds of weird reasons.
You know, like, where if there's three things in a room, like if I see, okay, there's
three bottles in a row, mean you don't even have to know each other.
And I say, hey, grab the third bottle.
It's kind of, there's a shirt.
There's a kind of ambiguous understanding.
Okay, then want to further this one on the right.
You know, it's like that. So the numbers can jam you.
Well, we numbered this podcast.
Yeah, because it's like chronological.
Yeah.
So interestingly, they could have had just names.
In fact, maybe they should have.
Remember when the UFC's used to be numbered?
Yeah.
Or they're numbered.
And then there's all no one was.
This is what I was thinking.
They used to give them a number.
And then they would have like a crazy name.
Yeah, yeah, the title.
Like that.
Fetch and so I actually did.
And then some glory or whatever.
And then they just started just calling them the names of the guys
that were fighting.
Yeah.
Which makes sense once you have, that's kind of what I'm thinking
right now.
Like someone that's looking for a certain episode.
Yeah.
They would, they might not remember the number,
but they remembered the book or they remember the person.
Yeah.
That's kind of interesting.
But we do kind of do it like that.
Yeah, we kind of love.
Yeah, one, what is, is there value to having a number
aside from keeping a count of how many episodes there are?
Well, I think someone now can, if you know what one you're looking
for and then you find it, then you can go and find it easy
in your platform.
But the easiest way, if you want to know what,
because sometimes I don't remember what a particular,
if you Google, Jocco, podcast, and then whatever thing
that you're looking for, it'll take you to the YouTube video.
Right.
It'll take you to the YouTube video.
Yeah, because the YouTube videos are put the,
somebody just told me on, on, somebody said,
hey, you should review this book, Maurice Stradgercon.
Stradgercon.
Stradgercon, yeah.
And I said, you should review this book.
And this guy's like been in the game for a while.
And I said, you should check out podcast,
and I did it right away.
Number one, so I Googled Jocco, Stradgercon.
And I found 57, boom, done.
So now you can say, for the 70s, you go back
and then look, right?
Yeah.
Check.
All right.
Talking about drilling the troops back to the book,
the younger soldiers and recruits went through
their drills of every kind, every morning and afternoon,
and the veterans and most expert regularly once a day.
Length of service or age alone will never form a military man.
For after serving many years, an undisciplined soldier
is still a novice in his profession.
By practice, only can be acquired a guilty of body
and the skill requisite to engage an enemy
with advantage, especially in a close fight.
But the most essential point of all is to teach soldiers
to keep their ranks and never abandon their colors
in the most difficult evolutions.
Thus men thus trained are never at a loss amidst
the greatest confusion of numbers.
The recruits likewise are to be exercised
with wooden swords at the post,
to be taught to attack this imaginary antagonist
on all sides into aim at the side to feet or head,
both with the point and edge of the sword.
I think some of those movies that came out,
because this is in sound glorious to me.
Maybe it doesn't do you, but to me, that sounds awesome.
And then like movies like Brave Heart,
where they're showing kind of the sword battles
and how just psycho it was.
I think that's a good reminder.
Yeah, big time. Back to the book, in short,
both Legionary and Arggzilla Retroops should continually be drilled
in cutting wood, carrying burdens, passing ditches, swimming in the sea
or rivers, marching in the full step and even running with their arms
and baggage so that in order to labor in peace,
they may find no difficulty in war.
Four, as the well-trained soldier is eager for action,
so does the untot fear it.
In war, discipline is superior to strength.
But if that discipline is neglected,
there is no longer any difference between the soldier and the peasant.
The old maxim is certain that the very essence of an art
consists in constant practice.
Yeah, discipline is superior to strength.
This is a solid book.
The art, the very essence of an art consists in constant practice.
So whatever it is, you want to be good at.
Yeah. That's how you get good at it.
Lately I just wrote another book.
We've been writing a lot.
I've been writing a ton, and you can see,
the first draft was probably five times better than our first draft
of our first book.
And we both have done a lot of writing in the military,
you know, in college and all that, but you practice,
you get better.
Jiu Jitsu, guess what, you practice, you get better.
Pull ups.
You're going to pull ups, do pull ups.
Here we go.
The last demonians made war their chief study.
They affirmed to be the first who reasoned on the events of battles
and committed their observations there on to writing
with such success as to reduce the military art
before considered as totally dependent on courage or fortune
to contain two certain rules and fixed principles.
As a consequence, they established schools of tactics
for the instruction of youth in all the maneuvers of war.
How worthy of admiration are these people
for particularly applying themselves to the study of an art
without which no other art can possibly exist?
Boom.
That's interesting.
It's interesting, can you imagine it? Well, for me,
you know, actually, I can't imagine.
When you're a kid, you think like war is just like,
just charge.
And then as soon as you get into the teams,
you're like, oh, there's maneuvers you can do.
There's things you need to make happen.
There's ways you can get advantage.
It's not just what they call it, courage or fortune.
It's not just that at all.
There's a whole lot of things involved.
And it's also interesting that they were doing,
they were doing studies and debriefs on the war,
on the battles.
Because it sounds like people weren't, and he says, hey, look,
they were the first two reasoned on the events of battles
and committed their observations they're on to writing,
with such a success to figure out that there's a military art.
And how fired up is it that
to study this art of war without which no other art can possibly exist?
Two strong for you?
You're not strong for every strong.
I can see that's a bold statement for sure.
It's a real bold statement.
I don't think I thought about it enough to offer any sort of opinion.
No, I'm the deal, but hey, man, I dig it.
Kind of like exercise in life, right?
Or healthy in life.
Yeah, that's true.
But yeah, sure.
Cool.
You seem pretty fired up a bit.
You do.
And this is where George Washington statement kind of paraphrased from.
Back to the book, he, therefore, who desires peace,
should prepare for war.
He who aspires to victory should spare no pains to form his soldiers.
And he who hopes for success should fight on principle, not chance.
No one dares to offend or insult a power of known superiority in action.
You get bummed out that unit learn this in third grade, like this whole thing.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, right, including Jiu Jitsu for sure.
Yeah, well, yeah.
I feel like you kind of, I learned this kind of from you in the beginning,
where, you know, how you have this kind of big picture kind of mindset.
And I liked it.
The long game, you always like, you always correct me when I have this, like,
sort of certain term.
Yeah.
That's what I wish I understood slash even.
I don't know if kids are even capable.
Yeah.
Really?
Well, no, you're 100% right.
And I've actually said this many times that kids have a hard time.
Connecting what they're doing now with where it puts them in the future.
And I say kids and by kids, I mean me, everyone.
Yeah.
I mean, I'm better now.
But when you're, when you're a kid, like it made, and kids, some kids are different.
You know, like some of my, some of the kids that my kids hang around with,
some of them are dialed, where they've just got a vision.
They know where they're going.
They know where they're going to be in eight years.
They know what they want to do.
That's not a majority of the kids.
Most kids are, you know, like, well, hey, I can get this right now.
And that's cool.
And they don't think about how it's going to affect when the future.
And that's, that's, that's just really problematic.
Yeah.
Not understanding that long game is really problematic.
And I think we do a bad job of teaching it as parents and as teachers and as a society.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, I mean, there's, because you have, you know, like,
JP says this and, and Laced this where when I was a kid,
even you say you want to be some sort of a commando.
Yeah.
At least you had like an idea, you know, so there's, at the very least,
somewhat in your mind to be like, hey, for sure.
If I do this, that was, that was a savior.
Yeah.
So I think some families just through tradition and stuff like that,
they'll have that structure.
Hey, you're up.
I don't know.
You're a Johnson.
So you do this, X, Y, Z.
And it's just a matter of getting the kid to embrace that,
which it's really kind of like, either they do it.
They know all the tasks.
Yeah.
I mean, I think if you're fair to your kids, because a lot of times,
like, we get caught up in like our own feelings, you know,
in this thing like, you know, I don't know.
You kids not listen to you or some like that.
You're like, oh, my kids not listening to me.
You know, you get caught up in the feeling that emotions.
Yeah.
You know, that rather than, hey, you know,
this is a problem that needs to be solved to kind of thing.
So I think that's the way you can alienate your kids real easy.
And it's a common thing.
I think where, you know, well alienator kids,
and then they won't embrace the pride and tradition of your family.
Because they're like alienated.
You alienated.
You alienated me.
One way or another.
Sometimes you don't even know you alienated.
You know, they're like, oh, he's in a rebellious phase.
You know, like, sure, there is such thing as a rebellious kind of phase.
Yeah, you know, sure.
And they gather this or they gain the sense of like empowerment in certain ways.
You know, they want to test it out.
They want to test about it.
Yeah.
You know, that, it's a concept that they know.
They got to break away from their parents.
That's something they got to start practicing that.
Yeah.
It seems, it seems natural.
But if you have successfully alienated your kid,
when that rebellious phase comes,
they're stepping right outside the game.
They're starting their own thing.
In fact, they're going to have some resentment against
Dad who's this unfair tyrant who's lame.
Heaps this.
It's just stuff like the kids never think their parents know anything.
No, no, no.
You know, as a parent, I understand why I totally don't like,
I say, I get it.
No, but that is funny.
That is pretty funny.
I mean, we just don't.
It's not just parents.
Like your teachers don't know anything.
I'm not speaking for everybody, but like when I was a kid,
parents didn't know anything.
Teachers didn't know anything.
I knew everything.
Much of darks.
Much of idiots.
God, I'm stupid.
So if you're listening to this and you're,
you know, under the age of 40,
you might want to listen to your.
All right.
That's good stuff.
He who desires peace should prepare for war.
Remember that one.
Back to the book.
And army to numerous.
So now he's talking about the size of the army.
The army to numerous is subject to many dangers and inconveniences.
Its bulk makes its slow and unwieldy in its motions.
And it is obliged to march and columns of great length.
That is exposed to the risk of being continually harassed and insulted by
inconsiderable parties of the enemy.
The enumy, the enumy of the baggage is often an occasion of its being
surprised in its passage throughout difficult places or over rivers.
The difficulty of providing forage for such numbers of horses and other beasts of burden is very
great.
Besides the scarcity of provisions,
which is to be carefully guarded against in all expeditions,
soon ruin such large armies with the consumption.
It's so great that notwithstanding the greatest care and filling the magazines,
they must begin to fail in a short time.
And sometimes they unavoidably will be distressed for want of water.
But if unfortunately this immense army should be defeated,
the numbers lost must necessarily be very great.
And the remainder who save themselves by flight too much
disperited to be brought to action again.
And I read that whole thing so I could read this,
which is saying hey, like you get too many people.
I read that whole thing so I could read this.
The ancients taught by experience,
preferred discipline to numbers.
Like we'd rather just have a small square away group than a ton of guys.
So where I see this with businesses, this is what businesses.
Is as businesses grow,
it becomes harder for them to turn, right?
It's harder for them to pivot.
Oh yeah, yeah, so you get big companies that when they were small,
they were all agile and they were making things happen and they can change direction.
And then as they get bigger and bigger and bigger, they lose the ability to do that.
And so you got to pay attention to that.
And what you have to do, there's a couple of solutions.
It's like the solution is yeah, you can stay small,
but you don't want to spend it's day small as a business because you can't just like, you know,
it's coldest, stay small as an army, but there's only so much you can do with limited number of people.
So what you have to do is you have to start to become more aware of what's going,
what's going, what's coming down the pipe in the future.
Because it's going to take longer for you to pivot this big monster you've got.
Yeah.
So you've got to do it.
You've got to pay more attention.
So when you grow in size,
this is classic.
When you grow in size, a business,
if the leaders of the business continue to focus down and in to the company,
they won't see what's coming over the horizon.
And that's when they get caught off guard and now they don't have time to pivot because they're a lot bigger.
But they used to get away with it because they were a little small company.
They could come to work on Monday and they could talk to everyone and one sitting and everyone gets on board and we move forward.
You fast forward that and you go from 50 employees to 500.
That are now spread out over a large geography.
You can't make that quick move.
And so what you have to do as a leader as you grow,
you need to adjust your frame of vision from looking down inside your company to looking up and into the future.
If you don't make that transition, you can't.
You think you can turn things quickly.
You can't.
It's a big army and a big army has to be.
It's hard to control a big army and it takes more lead time.
And so that's the focus that you have to adjust to as you grow.
Yes, good to have fun.
So how do you do it then?
Like you as the.
Well, what you do is you have people underneath you.
If you're making widgets and I wasn't, we started off.
We had eight people and I was in the factory all day checking out your widgets and making sure that they were good to go.
And I was testing them myself and I was making little adjustments.
That's cool.
That's fine.
It works when we had eight people.
But now when we get 40 people, I need to start going, okay, echo.
Can you pay attention to widgets in here?
And then when I get to 300 people, I need to have four or five echoes that are down there that are watching this stuff.
So that's what you got to do.
You got to adjust your field of vision.
You got to adjust your focus or all to you.
And what fools people, what fools people, what catches them off guard is that they think they can still pivot quickly.
Because they were able to do it when they were smaller when they had 30 or 40 people.
They were able to pivot quickly.
They got 300, they can't do it.
And they get caught off guard.
Here, watch out for that.
Kind of like a big cruise ship.
Kind of like a little speed boat.
Of course.
Like this.
Those things take miles to turn.
Miles.
Those big oil tankers, they take miles to stop.
Back to the book.
The excellence of their discipline made their small army sufficient to encounter all their enemies with success.
Now, this is something else I see a lot in business world.
And this is very common, right? You get the big, the big business, the big gorilla in the room or whatever.
And they can't pivot very quickly.
Well, then you get the smaller companies that are very agile.
And they start picking away at the big guy.
That's what he's talking about right here.
Like, just because you're small doesn't mean you can't.
You can't take a shot at the title.
You know, you could move quickly.
And if there's chaos going on, that's when you can adapt.
Now, are they advantageous to being the big company with lots of money and lots of people in your very stable?
Oh, yeah, absolutely.
So, and are there advantageous to being small?
Yes, there are the mistake that people on both sides make is they view themselves.
They don't understand what their strengths and weaknesses are.
And they don't understand the strengths and weaknesses of their opponents, right?
So they say, if there's someone that can move quicker than them, they go, don't worry about them.
We're bigger and more stable.
Well, those people are maneuvering on you.
Yeah.
And there's a little needles in your feet.
And eventually those little needles get infected and there's a problem.
Yeah.
You know, situation going on. So you have to constantly as a leader and again,
this is why leadership is important.
You have to, as a leader need to assess what's the strength of that group.
What's the weaknesses?
What are our strengths, right?
We keep hearing this again over and over again throughout all these ancient military leaders.
Know yourself. Know your opponent.
Know your strengths. Know your weaknesses.
For sure.
People fail to do that.
Yeah.
Problematic.
Here we go.
Famine makes greater havoc in an army than the enemy.
And is more terrible than the sword.
You know, every time we've read that in last couple of books, people talking about how it's better to starve your enemy.
Just makes me really, really thankful that there's abundant food in this country right now.
It really does.
I mean, I've never been starving and can you imagine starving to death?
It's got to be absolutely heinous.
Yeah.
Worst than the sword, according to the Gettius.
An army drawn together from different parts sometimes is disposed to mutate.
And the troops, though not inclined to fight, pretend to be angry at not being led against the enemy.
Such seditious dispositions, Prince Berley's, Prince Berley, show themselves in those who have lived in their quarters in idleness and a feminacy.
These men on a custom to the necessary fatigue of the field are disgusted at its severity.
Their ignorance of discipline makes them afraid of action and inspires them with insurgency.
So you let your, it's one of those, it's one of those dichotomies.
That's what it is.
If you let your people do whatever they want to pick it soft, then they start to rebel.
You want to talk about kids, you know, let your kids do whatever you want or whatever they want.
And see how that works out for you.
Lack of discipline to your kids, you can end up with some rebellious kids.
Yes.
Now, am I saying that you need to beat them like a dog?
Intestimition? No, I'm not saying that at all.
Because you know what that dog is? That dog's crazy. That dog will bite you at some point.
Yep. Right?
Or somebody else.
Yeah.
It's problematic.
So you have to find the balance between those two things.
He says there's several remedies for this evil.
Let them be constantly employed either in the field days or in the inspection of their arms.
They should not be allowed to be absent on furlough.
They should be frequently called by role and trained to be exact in observance of every signal.
Let them be exercised in the use of the bow and throwing missile weapons and stones.
Both with the hand and sling.
And then with the wooden stored sword at the post.
Let them be let all of this be continually repeated and let them be often kept under arms until they are tired.
Let them be exercised and running and leaping to facilitate the passing of ditches.
And if their quarters are near the sea or the river, let them all without exception be obliged in the summer to have the frequent practice of swimming.
Let them be accustomed to march.
March through thickets and closures and broken grounds to fell trees and to cut out timber to break ground and defend a post against their comrades who are in a deiver to dispossess them.
And in the encounter each party should use their shields to dislodge and bear down their antagonists.
All the different kinds of troops thus trained and exercised in their quarters will find themselves inspired.
With emulation for glory and eagerness for action when they come to take the field.
In short a soldier who has proper confidence in his own skill and strength entertains no thought of mutiny.
That's awesome.
Yeah, these guys were doing force on force training.
He's saying look, you're not going to use swords but you're going to go against each other with your shields and fight for it.
And this is a get I've answered that question a bunch of times where people, you know, how do you build morale in your team?
It's like make them train hard, make them work hard.
Now the real trick is to make them train hard, make them work hard but at the same time what you do is you give them ownership of that training.
So they're running the training.
They come up with the ideas and you just respect the hardcore training that they're doing and you do it with them.
You don't just impoth.
It's different than just imposing on the team like we're going to do this hardcore training.
That won't create a mutiny if you're not careful.
Especially if you're not out there doing it with them or if you don't explain why it's important.
I read this thing.
This is to kind of add to that.
Well, I think so anyway.
They think I'm a foul.
I forgot what it was but it said and allow for success.
So like when you train you know you train our train hard but allow for success.
For sure because if there's no success it's like morale goes down after a while.
Yeah, something like this.
For sure.
You can't just let it sit.
I just said you can't beat that dog.
Yeah, yeah.
You can't beat that dog.
It is much more to the credit of a general to form his troops to submission and no
obedience by habit and discipline than to be obliged to force them to their duty by the terror of punishment.
So he's making the reason I point that out is because it's making a clear,
a clear delineation between discipline and punishment.
Like discipline good punishment bad and he's saying those are two kind of opposite things.
So I think that's very important.
Things go to you.
And it's important to remember that you're treating your people good.
You're taking care of them.
That's what you're doing.
You don't necessarily take care of them by making their life soft.
You take care of them by making their life discipline and hard.
Not to beat them down.
There's a balance.
But that's what you got to find.
Yeah.
Back to the book.
It is essential to know the character of the enemy and the enemy.
And of their principal officers, whether they be raster, cautious,
Enterprising or timid, whether they fight on principle or from chance and whether the nations they have been engaged with were brave or cowardly.
So again, know your enemy.
You must by no means venture to lead and it resolute or dividend army to a general engagement for soldiers,
unused to fighting for a length of time must be considered in the same light as recruits.
So you say, and if you got people that haven't fought in a while and they're a little bit nervous,
then you got to figure that they're just like recruits.
You can't always trust them.
And then he talks about the general and says, if he finds himself in many respects superior to his adverts, adversary,
he must by no means defer bringing on the engagement.
So if you're in a better spot than the enemy or you can take them, go.
But if he knows himself inferior, he must avoid general actions and endeavor to succeed by surprises and strategies.
This one skillfully managed by good generals have often given them victory over enemies superior both in numbers and strength.
So this is common sense stuff.
If you think the enemy is better than you, don't fight him head on.
That's gorilla warfare.
If you think the enemy is bigger and stronger than you, you don't fight him head on.
All arts and trades, whatever are brought to perfection by continual practice.
How much more should this maximum true in inconsiderable matters be observed in affairs of importance?
And how much superior to all others is the art of war by which our liberties are preserved,
are dignity is perpetuated and the provinces and the whole empire itself exists.
You don't really like that.
You're suspect.
I think you like it enough for both of us.
Okay.
We'll take that.
It's true though.
Yeah, I actually can dig it.
Yeah, I mean, let's face the facts here.
If it wasn't for war, well, then you'd just be enslaved by someone.
I mean, I'd love for it to not be that, for that to not be the case.
But if it wasn't for war, you would just be enslaved by people.
Yeah, someone else, that was someone that believed in war, would you be this slave of them?
Yeah, that's I would work.
Yeah, you're sorry.
I'm sorry.
That's the nature of the world.
Yeah, no, you're actually right.
Yeah.
It's like, it's like the hope or wish that everyone was just perfect.
Of course, that'd be great.
Or actually in a way, would it be great though?
You know how like sure.
It'd be great if I got along everyone's saying goodbye on.
I don't know, but isn't isn't like stress or imbalance or whatever.
Isn't that the catalyst for any kind of progress of any kind?
What if everyone was just happy and it's just all good.
It's satisfied.
Yeah, right.
I don't know man.
I think we'd be in the stone.
I think it's bad.
Yeah, we probably would be.
But guess what, if we're in the Stone Age, and I see that you got a piece of whatever piece of meat or rock that I want, guess what?
I know.
I see that.
But now you're talking reality.
Yeah.
Of course.
So, but so I mean, I guess the question is not to call off on too much of a tangent, but the question is, would you want it to be all peaceful all the time?
With no progress.
Would you want that?
Good theoretical question.
Kind of know, right?
I mean, because you're kind of thinking that you're kind of thinking, like doing graphic design.
I don't know.
I'm not confused.
I wouldn't exist if it wasn't for war.
Nope.
It would not.
There you go.
Point taken.
But even like, even like competition, right?
You know how it's like, yeah, competition is good.
Healthy competition is good.
It's good for you.
It makes you be, it doesn't feel like that.
Even when you're in the moment, it's like, let's say you're just dominating.
And whatever.
I don't know.
You play tennis.
And you're killing everyone.
And you're number one.
You're breaking world records.
You're money.
And then you kind of notice this new young hungry guy coming in.
You start breaking your some of your records.
You're like, you don't like that.
That makes you kind of mad.
You kind of wish that never happened.
But at the same time, that usually is a catalyst for you to start working harder.
You're preparing for that young.
I'm all about it.
Yeah.
But you're kind of kind of, and you like the head to head, you know, like you like that.
Yeah, like the competition.
Yeah.
You like directly, though.
You know, like when you say, when I think anyway, when when they say healthy competition is good,
it's the result of healthy competition is good.
You get the best product, right?
In the market or whatever.
And that's the result.
That's why it's good.
That's why it's kind of empirically good, ultimately.
I agree.
Sure.
It's not a perfect process.
You know.
You know, you're on the fence of my eye.
No.
But you, you like, like if I came up and you could tell, I was feeling good.
That would make you, that would make you nervous.
You'd be happy.
You'd be like, you like that head to head to head to head to head.
I felt you were feeling good about what?
Come on.
On the mat.
On the mats of justice.
Yeah.
If you come up to me, you're all excited.
Or even give me the echo Charles Scowl.
Yeah.
What is, okay.
You're open and more.
You're right.
Because I just played that through my mind.
Yeah.
When I see you like that, I'm like, oh, yeah.
It's even more on.
And so I'll even put it more accurately.
More extreme more understandable as far as what I think you're like.
So let's say we went enrolled and I tapped you out.
Right.
For the first time.
Sure.
You wouldn't like that specific thing.
But when we roll again, that's when you'd be at your happiest right there.
That's what I think.
Like I think most of us.
Yeah.
I mean, you want more of a challenge.
Like all of that.
It's really on now.
That moment to you is a very pleasurable moment.
It's what it seems like.
For some people like, from, I don't know.
I would even argue for like a lot of people like that.
I mean, maybe that's a good example, maybe not.
But that moment usually is a very stressful moment.
Like dang, now I got to deal with this now.
You know, and sure, it'll result in the way better stuff for sure.
But the moment is less embraced.
Yeah.
You know what I think people should pay attention to too is the thing that bothers people again.
Topically we've talked about before.
The thing that bothers people is the anticipation of the situation.
Right.
But most people like you, like, we were talking about
you making videos earlier.
When you know, like there's a monster coming in your probably like,
Oh, I got to do this video.
That I would imagine hangs over your head more than when you actually are,
All right, now you're doing the work and you're putting it together.
And it's getting dialed.
Yeah.
That's how I feel about things.
You know, I'll be like, there's something that I got to do.
And I'm like, I'm like, oh, you know what?
You do you attack that thing.
Yeah.
Jumping.
And now when you talk to me earlier about working out and like,
Hey, do you ever just call it what I will do, which is major weakness is,
I'll, I'll, I'll like, I'll like, wait.
I'll, I'll, I'll pace.
I've posted this on Twitter before like, yeah, I hemmed and hot.
I, I, I, you know, read the weights.
I vacuumed it and that's whatever I'm taking all kinds of reasons to not start.
I'm procrastinating it.
I'm going to do it.
I'm going to make myself do it.
But I'm just, I'm just like being such a baby.
Yeah, right.
I do that 200%.
Yeah.
It's like, I'm not talking hours.
But it's there.
But 20 minutes, you know, 20 minutes of like, you know what I better stretch out.
Yeah.
Let me see.
Exactly.
That's weak.
Good.
weak.
Do it.
Yeah.
Just do it.
That's the thing.
That you know what, you know what, that's one thing.
I'll tell you to little, this is a workout tip from Joccal Day.
All right.
You do, you put a stopwatch on stuff.
Right.
Like you, even when I'm doing something that's not really long, even when I'm doing something
that's not really focused on the time.
I at least put a stopwatch on it so that I just got to keep, you know, you just keep, it
just keeps it on pace, man.
Yeah.
Because otherwise, that feeling that I just talked about will, will start finding itself in between
sets.
Yeah.
That's not good.
All of this weird thing, I've mentioned this workout that I started long time.
Never really deviated that much for.
It has rest between sets as part of the workout, the time designated time designated time.
Designed time, yeah.
It was always, I don't think, man, I can not think of a time where it ever worked out
where the time between the sets was just like ambiguous or something.
It was always a specific time.
So that little procrastination thing would creep up between exercises or before my first
set.
You know what you were, I'm not feeling like.
And the first set is usually the heaviest for me to.
So I'm like, all right.
All right.
And that'll happen.
You're right though.
It's the watch on it.
I have this one workout that I do where I do like it's el-sit pull ups and then talk pull
ups and then dead hang pull ups and then kipping pull ups and then chin ups.
And then chin ups.
So it's like those five and you do as many as you can in each and then you then I do
something else and then I come back and do again.
I do like five rounds of that.
So they're like burnout sets.
Yep.
Each one's a normal set.
Okay.
And like the first time I did that, I got that was cool.
And so when the first time I did it, you know, it's kind of, let's just say motivated
to do it.
Yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And this was years and years ago.
And then the next time I did it, it took me a really long time.
And I realized because I just was taking a long time between sets.
Yeah.
That's not the purpose of it.
So now I always put a stopwatch on that thing.
Yeah.
Keep the clock ticking.
And that's it.
And you feel it because you feel the clock ticking.
Yeah.
You know, you're like, oh my god.
I guess that would apply to everything.
Huh.
Like, if you, you know, that's why like when I write, I do a thousand words.
You know, why?
Because it gets thousand words done in hours.
Sometimes I'm, I'm wishing to see if I can get it in 50 minutes.
Wait wait.
So you will let say when you write, you boom, you set the clock.
You're telling your watch.
I don't set my watch.
Yeah, but you have it.
I look at it.
I look at it all.
It's, you know, eight, 48.
Okay.
948.
I'm going to be done.
Yeah.
I'm going to wrap this.
I got to do this.
Because that's even worse.
You set their poster to buy an excreion or you click on that little, on that little, internet
browser thing at the bottom.
Then there you go.
You're going on that slippery slope.
Don't do it.
Check.
Talking about the general a little bit more.
If therefore he finds his army composed of raw troops or if they have been long, long
been unacustomed to fighting, he must carefully study the strength, the spirit, the
manners of each particular legion and of each body of our Gilleseries cavalry and infantry.
He must know if possible.
This is good.
He must know if possible the naming capacity of every count tribune, subaltern and
soldier.
He must assume the most respectable, authority and maintain it by severity.
He must punish all military crimes with the greatest rigor of the laws.
So there's a dichotomy there.
He's saying you should know the name of every single person on your team.
At the same time, if they get online, you maintain by severity.
For troops that have never been an actioner of not for some time been used to such
spectacles, been used to such spectacles are greatly shocked at the sight of the wounded
and dying.
The impressions of fear they receive disposed them rather to fly than defy.
That's again to me is how to train people and get them used to what they're going to
be facing in the real world.
Always keep that in mind as a leader.
And I was about to say, I'm always keep that in mind as a trainer.
But as a leader, guess what you are, you're the trainer.
Having explained the less considerable branches of the art of war, the order of military
affairs naturally leads us to the general engagement.
So now he's up to this point.
He's only been talking about how to get ready for war.
This is a conjecture full of uncertainty and fatal to kingdoms and nations for indecision
in the decision of a pitched battle consists the fullness of victory.
troops must never be engaged in a general action immediately after a long march when the
men are fatigued and the horses tired.
The strength required for action is spent in the toil of the march.
What can a soldier do who charges went out of breath?
Sure, everyone's going to hit me up.
So you need more rest.
And he goes on to a little, a little get after it right here.
The sentiments of the troops should be determined before battle.
It is necessary to know the sentiments of the soldiers on the day of the engagement.
Their confidence or apprehensions are easily discovered by their looks, their words, their
actions, and their motions.
No great dependence is to be placed on the eagerness of young soldiers for action for fighting
has something agreeable in the idea to those who are strangers to it.
They're saying the young soldiers that have been in war that are all fired up the fight don't
listen to them because there's some agreeable in the idea of fighting to be let haven't
done it before.
And then he says on the other hand, it would be wrong to hazard into an engagement if the
old experience soldiers testify a disclination, a disinclination to fight.
So if the old guys are like, hey, there's boss, not a good idea.
Pay attention.
A general, however, may encourage an animatist troops by proper exhortations and herangs,
especially if by his account of the approaching action he can persuade them into the belief
of an easy victory.
With this view, he should lay before them the cowardice or unskillfulness of their enemies
and remind them of any former advantages they may have gained over them.
He should employ every argument capable of exciting rage, hatred, and indignation against
the adversaries in the minds of his soldiers.
Now this is something I disagree with.
I disagree with this idea.
I disagree with the idea of telling the troops that it's going to be an easy victory, of
telling the troops that, hey, they're cowards.
I don't agree with that.
Because when you do that, there's a lot of things that can go bad.
Number one, when you go against the enemy and you face them and they start doing
good against you because they're more skilled than you expected.
That's a problem.
Yeah.
Yeah, I can jam up your morale.
Oh, that can jam up your morale really bad.
So I don't recommend ever disrespecting the enemy.
I recommend you give them, if not to mention, if you're this can be an easy victory.
What's your mindset going into it?
Yeah, yeah.
Cruising.
First of all, you're not training hard for it.
You think you're going to win a easy it's called, yeah, don't do that.
No, you respect the enemy.
I think the point that he may have been trying to make is I don't be afraid of the enemy.
I get that.
Not for me afraid of, but respect them.
Mm-hmm.
Didn't affect the great say something like that in last time, like something about
remind them of how lame they are or whatever.
He did say something like that and actually it just, the thing that he was saying, wow,
what was that he said?
He was saying, no, what he was saying was only talk about the enemy with total score.
Right.
That's what he was saying.
Only talk about the enemy with total score.
And actually he was also saying, like, you shouldn't even hate the enemy, but don't
let anyone know that you don't hate them this size.
Which was kind of embarrassing.
And he's saying the same thing like rage and hatred and indignation.
That's how you want them to be thinking of the enemy.
So they both agreed on that point.
But I disagree on the point of tell your men that this is going to be an easy fight,
because it's not going to be an easy fight.
Yeah.
Back to the book.
It is natural for men in general to be affected with some sensations of fear at the
beginning of an engagement.
But there are without a doubt some of a more tomorrow's disposition who are disordered
by the very site of the enemy to diminish these apprehensions before you venture on action,
draw up your army frequently in order of battle in some safe situation so that your men
may be accustomed to the site and appearance of the enemy.
When opportunity offers, they should be sent to fall upon them and endeavor to put them
to fight or kill some of their men.
Thus they will become acquainted with their customs, arms and horses and the objects with
which we are once familiarized are no longer capable of inspiring us with terror.
It's amazing how good you get it.
It's something like if you've seen it one time.
Just think about any situation.
Think if you scare someone which I enjoy scaring people.
But if you scare someone and then they come back in and you try to do the same thing, they're
not scared at all.
It doesn't work.
So that's what that's how you want to prepare your people.
You get them used to those seeing what they're going to see.
The generals are acutely aware that victory depends much on the nature of the field of battle.
When you intend, therefore, to engage, endeavor to draw the chief advantage from your situation,
the highest ground is reckoned the best.
Always take the high ground.
Talking about reserves, the method of having bodies of reserves in the rear of the enemy,
composed of choice infantry and cavalry, commanded by the super-numerary, lieutenant generals,
counts and tribunes is very judicious and of great consequence toward the gaining of a battle.
Some should be posted in the rear of the wings and some near the center to be ready to fly
immediately to the assistance of any part of the line which is hard pressed to prevent
its being pierced.
To supply the vacancies made therein during the action and thereby to keep up the courage
of their fellow soldiers and check the impetuosity of the enemy.
So as ever, reserves don't over extend yourself.
The post of the commander in chief is generally on the right between the cavalry and the infantry
from this place he can best direct the motions of the whole army and move elements with
the greatest of ease wherever he finds necessary.
It is also the most convenient spot to give his orders to both horse and foot and animate
them equally by his presence.
So position yourself in a good spot.
An able general never loses a favorable opportunity of surprising the enemy either when
tired on the march, divided in the passage of a river, embarrassed in a morassus, struggling
with the declavities of mountains, when dispersed over the country they think themselves
in security or are sleeping in their quarters.
So just take advantage of your enemy whenever they let their guard down.
In all these cases the adversaries are surprised and destroyed before they have time to put
themselves on their guard.
But if they are too cautious and you and give but if they are too cautious to give you
an opportunity of surprising or incinerating them you are then obliged to engage openly
in on equal terms.
So whenever you get the chance you suck or punch them.
Right?
Sure.
You know is that the is that am I encouraging you to grab and soccer punch people?
No, but if you're going to fight take advantage of the situation.
If you've already determined that the enemy you need to be fought you're going to do
everything you can to.
But isn't that?
If you think I just started to rash of soccer punches?
No, I feel like you misused the expression.
That's what I think.
Because soccer punch is more of a waging of war or certain level of war when someone's
in the same thing.
These are already at war.
They're already at war.
So now it's like it's kind of.
So soccer punches the kind hey we're just going to go invade this country.
They have no idea that we're you know they don't know one of their citizens said something
bad about our president or something like that.
But if you guys are in war and they're sleeping or something like that oh no man that's
good.
I agree.
I agree no I actually agree with you very much.
Very strongly I think you're correct.
Yeah.
In fact I don't think you should soccer punch anyone.
Yes I agree you shouldn't soccer punch someone.
But if you are at war with someone, yes then you try to get them at their least prepared
situation.
Yes agree.
1000%.
All right this is important.
The flight of an enemy should not be prevented but facilitated.
Generals unskilled in war think a victory incomplete unless the enemy are so straightened
in their ground or so entirely surrounded by numbers as today have no possibility of escape.
But in such situation where no hope remains fear itself will arm an enemy and despair
inspires courage as powerful.
I think about that fear itself will arm the enemy if you surround them completely.
When men find themselves, oh sorry, when men find they must inevitably perish they willingly
resolve to die with their comrades and with their arms in their hands.
The maximum that a golden bridge should be made for a flying enemy has much been commended
for when they have free room to escape they think of nothing but how to save themselves
by flights and the confusion.
Now you might think that you might think by that statement he say hey like you build
a golden bridge for them to get away.
You might think that that's sort of a merciful thing to do but check out this line
and the confusion becoming general great numbers are cut to pieces.
The pursuers can be in no danger when the vanquished have thrown away their arms for
greater haste.
So in here guys are dropping their swords they see an escape they drop their swords and they
run for it but you got them you're waiting their form.
In this case the greater number of the flying enemy the greater the slaughter.
Those are of no signification where troops once thrown into consternation are equally
terrified at the sight of the enemy as their weapons.
So that's good advice.
This is something as well.
You know it's not the same thing but man when you when you're dealing with another
human being and let's say let's say you and I are talking about something and I know
I'm right and I know you're wrong but you kind of planted yourself into it.
You kind of painted yourself into a corner I'll give you a little out.
I don't want to do that to you.
I don't want to do that to be hard work with.
No.
It'll give you a little out.
Oh yeah it's probably the way it used to be but you know what hey it's a little
something.
We go like yeah yeah you know definitely I've done it before.
I call that school I'm not worked.
What do you think of this?
It's good.
It's a nice thing to do but it feels very smart.
The way it's very smart.
It's very smart.
Do you give people a little out?
I have to do that with I have to do that with my kids you know.
They're a little out because I'll paint themselves in a corner because their kids you know.
That's what they do.
They just ask what they do.
Yeah.
It's a one-year embarrass someone because that's kind of embarrassing.
Especially when you get into some argument where it turns into a meance you kind of
think that you realize you're wrong and you're like oh man I have to basically give them
a wow I got yeah get me give that out so we're kind of we're both winners.
Yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah yeah.
Back to the book in the first place your men must not imagine that you retire
to decline in action but believe you retreat an artist to draw the enemy in to a more
advantageous position for you where you may more easily defeat them in case they follow
you.
For troops you perceive their general disperse of success are prone to flight.
So what that saying is and I should have given this introduction before is that if you
feel like you have to retreat you don't say hey we're we're we're getting crushed here
and we're going to retreat what we say is hey we're going to bathe them we're going to move
back we're going to draw them in so then guys go okay I get it if you're just like
hey we're getting our ass is kicked and we need to get out of here you're going to lose
people going to run away but if you're like hey we're doing this maneuver we're going
to fade back a little bit we're going to set them up and you go oh cool I'm going
to get an opportunity for payback.
Yeah yeah so that's a good point yeah very good point.
It seems like their mindset would still be in the fight in that case.
For sure.
And then versus.
Oh we're getting our out of here exactly you keep them in the fight exactly.
Now once people once the enemy is fleeing and you chase them you got to be careful
back to the book a rationing considerate pursuit exposes an army to the greatest danger
possible that of falling into ambush ambushes and the hands of the troops enemy troops
ready for their reception.
For as in the term temerity of an army is increased and their caution lessened by the
pursuit of a flying enemy this is most favorable opportunity for such snares so when you
get somebody running after you that's when you can catch them.
The greater the security the greater the danger troops went unprepared at their meals
fatigue after march when their horses are feeding and insured when they believe themselves
most security most secure are generally most liable to a surprise.
All risks of this sort are to be avoided carefully and all opportunities taken of distressing
the enemy by such methods.
So that mindset that people get like you just said when they're running away is one
thing but also when they think they just want they get the mindset of like oh we don't
need security anymore anymore right now.
We don't need it we're good.
There's that one little line.
The greater the security the greater the danger that that line right there doesn't
make any sense.
The greater the security the greater the danger what he's saying is when the the greater
the security is the greater the danger of being susceptible to letting your guard down.
Yeah like if you like the MMA situation they got the guy dead.
You're not sure fine right we talked about it but yeah you got him deeds days and they're
like well I'm gonna go in for the finish all crazy not like as cautious as maybe they
should be kind of that situation.
Yeah for sure he's talking about the greater the security so the better you feel.
Right this you're saying.
But I keep losing that line the greater the security the greater the danger the greater
the security the greater the danger that's what it is.
So when you're feeling secure watch it watch yourself resources in case of defeat.
If while one part of your army is victorious the other should be defeated you are by
no means to despair since even in this extremity the constancy and resolution of a general
may recover a complete victory.
So just because you take a little loss doesn't mean you're gonna lose completely yet
notwithstanding an entire defeat all possible remedies must be attempted since many generals
have been fortunate enough to repair such a loss.
So you can always come back.
And army after defeat has sometimes rallied returned on the enemy dispersed him by pursuing
in order and destroyed him without difficulty.
And more can men be in a more dangerous situation than when in the midst of joy after victory
their exaltation is suddenly converted into terror.
So same thing your joy is because you want and all of a sudden your the tables turn.
Whatever be the event the remains of the army must be immediately assembled reanimated
by suitable exhortations and furnished with fresh supplies of arms.
That's what you do.
When you get a good victory you're like all right reload that's what we're doing right
now.
And in this last section of the book he kind of just breaks down and sums up the rest of
the book that we just read.
So these are all pretty familiar most of them because we got covered most of them.
It is the nature of war that what is beneficial to you is detrimental to the enemy and
what is of service to him always hurts you.
That seems like common sense.
The more troops the more your troops have been accustomed to camp duties on frontier
stations and the more carefully they have been disciplined the less danger they will
be exposed to in the field.
Train them hard men must be sufficiently tried before they are let against the enemy.
Train them hard.
It is much better to overcome the enemy by famine, surprise or terror than my general actions.
From the latter instance fortune has often a greater share than valor.
I like the idea of overcoming the enemy just by terror.
Just I wish there was like a full chapter about that.
That's legit.
Those designs are best which the enemy are entirely ignorant of till the moment of execution.
The enemy in war is often more to be depended on than courage.
To debauch the enemy soldiers and encourage them when sincere in surrendering themselves
is of a special service for an adversary is more hurt by desertion than my slaughter.
So if you can get the enemy to come over to your side that's even worse to the enemy.
And when you're just killing them.
Because you think about when you're getting your friends killed you have some kind of
vengeance.
But if they just take your friends and they're like all in the back room having to have
them to blast a wine.
You know what?
I don't think that sounds better than the deal I got.
It is better to have several bodies of reserves than to extend yourself too much to the
front.
There you go.
A general is not easily overcome who can form a true judgment of his own and the enemy forces.
We've been hearing that once in Sunsu.
Art of war.
Valor is superior to numbers.
The nature of ground is often of more consequence than courage.
These guys talking about terrain.
That's what he's talking about.
So everyone that's an military lesson this right now.
terrain terrain terrain.
Learn to read the terrain.
This is a good one.
Few men are born brave.
Many become so through care and force of discipline.
Great dichotomy there.
Care for your people and through force of discipline is what makes people brave.
The army is strengthened by labor and weakened by idleness.
Don't sit around.
Keep moving.
Troops are not to be led to battle unless confident of success.
Evoltean surprised throwing enemy into consternation but common incidents have no effect.
Learn new moves.
That's some advice I need to take.
I always do the same moves.
Not good.
He who rashly pursues a flying enemy with troops in disorder seems inclined to resign that victory
which he had before obtained.
So if you go pursuing the enemy when your troops aren't organized you're basically trying
to give away your victory.
So be careful when you pursue.
An army unsupplied with grain and other necessary provisions will be vanquished without
striking a blow.
I need to wind you finds.
I looked around and I've been looking for like a Roman soldier and they've found some
letters and stuff but these guys must have been hungry.
Talk about the time I'm hungry.
On finding the enemy has notice of your designs you must immediately alter your plan
of operations.
Check.
Consult with many on proper measures to be taken but communicate the plans you intend
to put an execution to few and only those of the most assured fidelity or rather trust
no one but yourself.
Because interesting consult many people get some feedback from everyone.
Next, punishment and fear thereof are necessary to keep soldiers in order in quarters.
But in the field they are more influenced by hope and rewards.
Oh, that caught me for you.
Good officers never engage in general actions unless induced by opportunity or obliged
by necessity.
To distress the enemy more by famine than the sword is the mark of consummate skill.
And this is actually the last one.
Here dispositions for action must be carefully concealed from the enemy.
Unless they should counteract them and defeat your plans by proper experience.
So again I didn't cover all the maxims and the reason I didn't is because some of the
maxims that he talks about are legitimately ancient or tactical warfare.
But it's worth getting the books so you can read those and understand them.
And he kind of ends this book with a little note to the emperor of Rome at the time.
And this is how he wraps it up.
How glorious it is therefore for your majesty with all these qualifications to unite the
science of war and the art of conquest and to convince the world that by your conduct and
courage you are equally capable of performing the duties of the soldier and the general.
So he wraps up the book with that last dichotomy.
And I think that's one of the really one of the most important qualities for a leader to
have.
And one of the most important qualities to be able to balance and that is to be able to maintain
and lead from the highest position and at the same time never forget where you came from.
You've heard that expression.
Don't forget where you came from that's what he's talking about.
And I think for every leader what that means is recognize that you still have more to learn.
But you can still grow, you can still try and get better and obviously that's what we're
doing here is trying to learn and trying to keep learning.
And I think that wraps this up.
Obviously we make this podcast so that we can learn and other people can learn if they want
to join in and if you learn anything and you want to give this podcast some support.
There's some great ways to do it.
And the goal to when you support the podcast is that you also support yourself.
That's the goal mutually supporting situation is what we're going for.
So first off we got our company up in Maine, up in New England, or in USA, informing
to Maine, 100% American-made products.
It's a Gigi to company first and foremost, right?
That's the foundation.
These and rashguards, interestingly, guise one of the hardest things in the world to make
from scratch.
And we make them here in America.
A lot of people think they're the best.
That's actually what I think.
Yeah.
So it depends on what you mean by the best.
So if you think that the ones that fit the most appropriately for Gigi to, then yeah, they're
going to use your Gigi to Gigi for Gigi to, then the best.
They're the best.
Conqueror.
If you want various different weeds, various different options that happen to me, Maine
to America, and various perfect blends for washing, drying, and time microbial stuff.
You know, when you see, do you remember the first time you saw Dragon Weave, like with
your own eyes?
Were you impressed?
I was.
Like it's legitimately, it's legitimately impressive.
I actually, this is one of the dumbest things I've ever thought of in my life.
All right, lay it on me.
Okay, first, saw Dragon Weave.
I thought to myself, it would be cool to get a legit, because you know, sometimes I
got to wear a suit, because I'm going to work with a couple of you.
I thought to myself, it would be cool to get a legitimate suit made out of this.
Dragon Weave, Dragon Weave, Dragon Weave, yeah.
I can see that.
It took me about 20 minutes before I realized I was an idiot.
But it's that cool looking.
Yeah.
So, and it's that practical.
That's the thing.
Yeah.
You can get Giz, Rashcards, OriginMain.com.
What else?
Joggers.
Well, it's okay.
So, you wanted the suit, sorry about you said it.
So, let's talk about it.
At least a little bit.
You said the suit.
The suit, dude.
You know, okay, you know, hey, Dragon Weave, suit.
Good, cool.
But, so they had, I've talked about this before, where my favorite shorts are Dragon Weave
shorts.
They were something.
They don't make them.
Sorry.
Oh, well.
So, I was talking to Pete about him and I was like, hey, you know, like, you should
make the Jaggynly's.
And I forgot why, but, you know, not now.
There's other shorts, which are actually could prove more dope.
You see the buttons, like, you saw the buttons, right?
Like, for the shorts.
They're these buttons.
Right there, dope.
Anyway.
So, yeah, there's some joggerats, some shirts, and whatnot, some regular apparel, more athletic
wear, but super comfortable.
I'll tell you that.
As the self slash whatever pro claimed, kind of sort of comfort, I can say, come on.
So, we've come to the most comfortable stuff you're ever going to put on.
If you find anything more comfortable, let me know.
We'll see, compare apples to apples.
But yeah, some good stuff there.
Also some supplements.
And you know, speaking of the sub.
So, you know, you know who Dr. Rhonda Patrick is.
Yes.
She's been on Joe Rogan a couple of times.
Yeah.
Probably more not.
Anyways, she just tweeted out this thing, talking about curcumin.
And like, no kidding, double on.
I'm triple whatever tests UCLA.
Curcumin is awesome for you.
And.
But do you remember like what?
Yes.
You know, this is this is the thing.
It blew off.
The article actually blew off.
Wouldn't even blew off.
It was like, yeah, curcumin keeps down information.
Like that was no big deal.
Right.
Actually, that's a huge deal.
That's one of the reasons why it's in Joe and Warfare.
But then they did like a test.
And it improved memory and like cognitive reaction 28%.
This is in a lab.
And so, and then they referred to people in India that people in India who have a high level
of curcumin in their diets.
That's why Indian food looks yell.
Well, is because of that.
There's one not just like direct, but they're saying that's really interesting fact, right?
Yeah.
So anyways, that's in there.
It's in joint warfare.
So there's more than just joint warfare.
Yeah.
The super krill, which is real oil.
As we all know by now, krill oil is pretty much the best source of omega.
Better than fish oil.
Yes.
And we all know fish oil is good.
So oil is even better super krill oil.
Even better than regular krill oil.
You know what?
The big difference between super krill oil and krill oil.
I do that.
Yeah, it's super.
No, but there's in some actual technical beneficial, super stuff.
And it's like zen, it's something.
But it's an antioxidant.
Absolutely.
It's not an antioxidant.
It's an antioxidant.
It's something.
Sorry.
I'm saying it wrong.
But it's an antioxidant, which is a big deal.
You know what rust is rust?
Yeah, the oxidation.
Yes.
All that is oxidation and metal.
So when you get some people, I did, well, I knew this for a long time.
But before I knew it, this is what I was going to say.
This is how my brain was as far as antioxidants go.
My mom was like, hey, antioxidants.
I'm like, wait, oxidant, oxidant, oxygen.
Oxygen is good.
Why is it antioxidant kind of thing?
I'm saying, no, it's not antioxidant.
Oxygen, antioxidant, meaning it fights oxidation, which is rust of your body.
So your body technically is kind of rusting.
You know, antioxidants keeps it from rusting.
So now that you, what do you get?
You get a loyal one here?
When you hear antioxidants, that's what you're hearing.
It's going to keep your body from rusting straight up.
So, real oil.
Omega-3's better uptake than fish oil.
And we need to make it many things.
Just know that you need them.
In this case, for your joints.
In other cases, for your eyeballs, your brain, your organs, all this stuff.
But know that just know that it has many uses plus antioxidants, boom, super-cruel oil.
That's what makes it super.
Then joint warfare, as we mentioned.
Yes, that's for your joint procurement.
Not just procurement.
No.
Glucos mean conjoining.
These are things for scary age.
Man, I'm telling you, if you have bad joints, boom, joint warfare.
Boom.
Get some discipline too.
But yeah, by the way.
And so now, what we have as it turns out, according to Dr.
Rhonda Patrick, is that we have, so that all the things to each other.
Yeah.
So, joint warfare, krill oil is the joints.
But joint warfare also has cognitive enhancement, which as does the discipline.
So, there you go.
Discipline is like, what do you call it?
A powdered drink.
That's what it is, right?
Yeah, you know.
That's, I mean, I'll mix it up.
You put a little in your water bottle.
And then it gives you a little bit of natural muscle.
Yep.
So, you see that mental, mental, and very much.
Dave Berkson, me a text, he said, quote, best quote from the last podcast, Dave
Berkson, like a crackhead or something like that.
Sorry, Dave, no offense.
Yeah.
I know you're just like the discipline.
Amen.
Did you see someone posted a picture of like a guy with like cocaine, powder, all over
his face.
Yeah, the Dave should help.
Situation.
Yeah, that's a good thing.
Dave Berkson, yeah.
Maybe more than, at least, you've got nowhere to that discipline.
Yeah, well, well, so milk.
Okay, so that's a little bit of shifting gears.
Scenario.
In regards to supplements, milk.
Okay.
I'm gonna say the word protein, but I said this is from a city again, because to me,
it's appropriate.
I'm gonna say the word protein powder, but I'm not gonna say, hey, milk is a protein,
but I'm not gonna say that.
It's not appropriate, because it's different.
This is how it's different.
It's milk.
I just had a guy hit me up and he said, I don't drink protein powder.
But it sounds like this is just dessert.
Yeah.
And I hate to say it.
It's kind of true.
It kind of tastes like that too.
But dessert kind of has this kind of guilty kind of feel to it.
This is a guilt-free dessert.
Here's what I did though.
I was pushing though.
I know.
I was gonna kind of let you know, but I was like, hey, you know, just let me just
have it be funny for me.
So I'm thinking literally thinking of milk while I'm shopping.
Yeah.
So when I shop, you know, you wouldn't, I don't know how much you shop, but.
Zero.
Okay.
So I go in.
Next question.
I only go to, right?
I get red leaf lettuce.
I eat a lot of red leaf lettuce for whatever.
And I get milk.
But this time, I'm thinking of the milk.
I don't know why.
It was just in my head.
I wasn't gonna go drink some milk at that time.
It was just in my head for whatever.
And my eyes shifted to chocolate milk.
So I'm like, hey, what if I mix the chocolate milk with the milk?
I know, right?
It might be too much.
Did you do it?
No, I didn't do it.
Yeah, you don't need to.
Then again, why would I knock it for a try?
Because what if I discover something, seems same.
I didn't do it yet.
I'll report back.
But nonetheless, it is like a dessert, but it's one of those beneficial desserts.
Yeah, that's like a dark chocolate.
Like, you know, you know, consider dark chocolate.
Right.
I mean, it's a certain percentage of something where it's like good for you.
Yeah.
Got a drink of milk.
Like that.
It's like a big milkshake.
But it's egg in there.
You really want to get milk.
Well, we'll have some milk for sure at the immersion camp.
Which is, by the way, all this 26th, that's what it is.
Last year, we didn't have milk.
And then, milk wasn't even invented yet.
It was like straight up didn't exist.
It didn't exist.
It was like then all the sudden you cracked an atom open.
And they had to add milk to the periodic table.
That just happened.
Last year, I had to drink.
I just drank in the chocolate milk because they had it at the camp.
All right.
Yeah.
Like the old school cafeteria chocolate milk.
Just, it's just, it's just, it's just horrible.
You don't like it?
No.
I mean, I think I'm going to think of the experience because that's what it had.
It's not good.
So, yeah, immersion camp.
August 26th, in September 2nd, that's the last day about those two sessions in there.
I would say, you know, I can't speak for anyone else.
I would say, yeah, good of both.
That's good, but you know, good of one, good of two, whatever.
For those that are wondering, and I, this isn't confirmed yet, but we pretty pretty much
had the talk.
Pete, me, and be little.
And the conversation is looking like morning, ghee afternoon, no ghee evening, which
ever choice.
Yeah.
That's like a dream, isn't it?
I think so too.
And I don't have any complaints from the last one.
Yeah.
Literally, I have no complaints.
But I do remember thinking, if there was some no ghee mixed in here, this would really,
this would make me kind of not really want to leave.
The ever.
Yeah.
This is worth pointing out.
This is the kind of thing that I, you ever think about like people that are OCD.
Yes.
I think about that all the time.
Right.
And I'm both of, so sometimes I have a little bit of that.
But one of them is like, I want things to be squared away.
Right.
And so when I was going to the camp, I was kind of like, how is this whole laundry thing
that I work?
Like what's going to happen?
This was before.
Yeah.
Okay.
Well, the thing is, just to let everyone know, if you come to camp, they do laundry.
There's like a laundry service.
They pick it up and they wash our clothes and then they bring back in all your clothes,
nice and clean.
And that's a huge deal.
So you think you could basically get away with two geese?
Yes.
Two geese.
Well, maybe three.
All right.
Yeah.
I would say that way.
I only had two.
Probably three geese.
I didn't bring any geese.
I got an origin one.
Oh, yeah.
I was going to get there.
Yeah.
I'm saying to rotate them through properly.
But they're pretty fast on its turnaround.
Anyways, that's a deal.
But that's a, that's a, that's kind of a big deal.
The laundry is a case.
Because this is a difference between, hey, there's a laundry service.
Um, well, across camp to laundry mat and go handle your business.
Well, I actually, the camp is at a different same lake, echo lake.
But it's a different lake.
But I don't know what the exact laundry service, I think it's going to be the same
exact thing though, because the service didn't come from camp last time.
It's somebody that does laundry for geese.
Yeah.
Makes it.
There should be people in the world that just do ge laundry.
Just ge laundry.
Just.
Yeah.
They come in grab it though.
They're not going to do it like room service.
Yeah.
Really, it's huge to do.
I think it's a very convenient, great, nice.
Yeah, emergency camp, August 23rd, August 26th through September 2nd, 2 sessions.
I'm going to be there.
Jocco is going to be there rolling.
Yeah.
Rolling to fulfill your curiosity of how it is to roll with Jocco.
Um, I'm not going to say it'll be a good time rolling with Jocco.
I'm not going to say that much down.
My, you might get left down as far as pleasurable experiences go.
No, no, no, no.
Yeah, it might be everyone thinks all he's got to be so unbelievable.
No, it's like I'm not that good at gejitsu.
Yeah, I wasn't really thinking that.
I was thinking more, um, oh, yeah, it'll be fun and pleasurable.
Meanwhile, it'll be like 90% painful and then like 5% in mercy.
And, you know, there's other negative emotions.
But yeah, you can, you know, whatever.
If you wonder about that kind of stuff, I don't know, maybe you don't.
But yeah, that's in origin.
Also, we have a store actually.
Choco has a store and it's called Choco store.
Who made that name up?
I did.
Keep it in it simple.
Anyway, this is where you can get the rash guards that we make.
Get after it.
We'll trooper rash guards.
War your kid rash guards too.
By the way, if we're youth or your kids getting into gejitsu boom, and for surfing, and
for whatever, running, cycling, all that stuff.
And, uh, what other rash guards are there?
I'm just, to make sure.
Yeah, I'm just gonna get some rash guards.
That's what I'm gonna make.
Stand by the get.
Sure.
I was gonna make a good rash guard, but then I thought, hey, what's the message
of good?
Is it a stand by to get some too close to get after it?
No, okay.
Because stand by the get some is when you're standing by the get some.
Getting after it is when you're actually getting after it.
So when you're standing by or you're getting after it's two different things completely,
back to the good rash guard, it's important.
I think as far as the layers go, okay, good is like when something quantum quote
bad happens.
Mm-hmm.
It's always something good to come from.
So what you said, it's a direct quote.
So you can't make and put on a rash guard that's based on something bad happening
as far as losing goes or something like that, right?
Okay.
I guess you could technically.
If it looked dope.
I don't know.
Do you still have any way back to the T-shirts?
There's some coins on there, right?
Yeah, just put that deaf core on the T-shirt.
Deaf.
Yeah.
Good idea.
I think you're right about that.
Oh, hats on there as well.
Two kinds of hats as a random.
Actually three technically.
Three types of head gear.
Trucker hats.
Flex fit hats.
Beanie's just on time for summer.
Actually, beanie's been out for a while.
Beanie's was a set of random months.
Yeah, right on mom.
Get yourself too much credit, but speaking of summer and winter hoodies.
You get hoodies on there too.
Legit hoodies.
Non-hoi and hoodies.
Or you're going to make, you're going to make a Hawaiian hoodie apparently.
Yeah, I think technically there's no such thing as Hawaiian hoodie, but I will have a lighter
weight hoodie for when you go to Hawaii and it turns night time and the wind breeze
kind of blows and you're like, hang out, shadowy, long sleeve shirt or you know.
And it'll look kind of dope.
That's why.
The whole approach in my opinion is the women's stuff on there too.
You know, for the lady troopers, some tank tops and V-neck type t-shirts made specifically
for the ladies.
Solid, this is a good one.
Go ahead and also, otherwise it's a support.
Another way to support.
Subscribe to the podcast if you haven't already.
On iTunes and Stitchering Google Player.
Wherever you listen to podcasts, whatever platform you choose to use also YouTube.
Yeah, you should subscribe to YouTube.
The reason is so you can see echoes legit videos.
For instance, you just really released one.
Thank God.
Yes, echo had made a video for Warpath and he put Christmas music.
Which we all love.
Which in these doing Christmas time when we were all.
There's everything in the time.
And the thing is, the video is so graphically intense and I could tell and you had actually
told me that it took days, days to put together three seconds worth of film.
And so when you showed it to me, I was super pumped.
And then I heard the music.
I was super unpomped.
Unpomped.
Yeah.
That was unpomped.
And anyways, he's readown the Warpath video.
Now it's good music behind it, not Christmas music.
We'll just say revised.
It's revised.
You know, we can still revisit the Christmas music.
Did you call off the old one?
No, no, I left it man, that's for us.
You know, folks who like Christmas.
Oh, the Grinch over here.
Yeah, I know.
But yeah, it's good.
YouTube, yeah, subscribe to the YouTube and leave a review on the iTunes thing.
If you're in the mood, that's my opinion.
There you go.
It's a good one.
Good way to support too.
Also.
If you are looking to improve and increase your supply of fitness gear, I just got
a few things for my bicep, perhaps.
You know, when you kind of choose your mark on a different type of fitness, you know,
I don't know, you stick with the same thing.
I get it.
No, but different things.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, you get fired up.
Anyway, I don't want to go into that.
But I got some new stuff.
Anyway, where you get it is, in my opinion, go to on it.
So on it.com slash chocolate.
You can get some good stuff on there, including, but not
limited to kettlebells, maces.
I'm going to get better ropes.
I just read some really good stuff about better ropes.
Yeah, better ropes.
I've done them, but not with any kind of regularity.
Yeah, yeah, I want to do a battle rope program.
Yeah, I don't go in too much, but it's like, you know, like, if you're, it's like
for mechons, you know, and you can do a boy body boom, boom, boom, yeah.
It's like a burns a lot of calories, get to a muscular conditioning and stuff like that.
But I really good.
I was like, after you read it, it's like, you want to do better ropes from now on.
Anyway, good on it.com slash chocolate.
I got the mace from chocolate today.
I was fired up.
It's heavier than you saw.
Yeah, so, and I knew it was going to be heavy.
That's the thing.
Like, I know, because that's only a 20 pounder.
Yeah.
And lucky.
If you're, you know, that's one of those things.
I think, you know, when we talk about kettlebells and people will say, like, what
size kettlebell do you start off with?
It's hard to narrow that down.
That thing is heavy.
There's not too many people that are just getting all over that 20 pounder.
Yeah, don't even mean club.
This is like too heavy.
I've never done a mace workout, either way.
This is too heavy for me to do like a workout.
Yeah.
I'm like, even, like, it's so, it looks like a big, what he called, not a bowling pin, but
you know, the juggling pins, you know, like the people in the jaw.
So it looks like that.
But a waist 20 pounds.
It feels like a waist like 50 pounds.
Yeah, this is literally heavy.
It feels like that.
It's all big.
Anyway.
Yeah.
I'm going to work it in and I'm going to report back.
And I feel that suit.
I'm going to be a lot stronger than you.
Son.
Yeah, I like it.
That's good.
Speaking of that, if maybe you're thinking, oh, instead of working out, I'm going
to take a break, you can get the psychological warfare album that has tracks.
It's on iTunes, Google Play, MP3, wherever you can MP3s.
Just a little bit of guidance on how to overcome situations where maybe you're not going
to get after you and you know you should.
Yeah.
So there you go.
Working on psychological warfare, too, at this time.
So that'll be coming in the future.
All your excuses are lies.
Yeah.
That can be the title psychological warfare, too.
All your excuses are lies.
Yeah.
See that?
Look, we just kind of came up.
Yeah, that's good.
I like how you do that.
I'd call it like a spot.
Like a spot.
I'm going to go psychological spot.
Yeah.
That's what it is.
Because you might call that, though, because not everyone thinks of, when you say
spot, you're thinking of 1994 weightlifting bodybuilding.
Sure.
Oh, no.
Bit of powerlifting.
Yeah, I guess you can't really spot on a power clean, like Olympic-climbing.
Yeah.
Nonetheless, it is a spot nonetheless.
We got this award analogy you want to use.
I think the spot is the best because you don't need a spot necessarily.
Most of the time, you don't need it.
Most of the time.
Cool.
But if you got a spot out there and you need the spot, both there it is.
And he's a spot in here and he's going to bring you through.
You're not going to let the bar bear you.
You want to stand?
Fair enough.
Also, chocolate some tea.
It's called chocolate tea.
Interesting lean off.
Dry tea, which is tea bags and in a can, which have been popping every day, by the way.
It's so good.
I'm not going to say it's an anti-najja medication.
I'm not going to say that.
But as it turns out, it's kind of an anti-najja medication.
Super refreshing that they can't buy the way.
Also anti-weteness, because once you drink chocolate tea, you can that lift 8,000 pounds
automatically.
Hey, it's available.
Think Canada too.
On Amazon and Canada, that's new.
So check out Canadian folks up there hanging out with Jody Minick somewhere.
There.
Ottawa.
Then you can get it there too.
Also got some books.
Way the Warrior Kid and Mark's Mission.
Those are for children.
But I think everyone that reads him gets something out of them.
You just have to check them out.
They're right.
That video you did with Brian Rose.
Yeah.
The one that everyone saw my brother's watching the video.
I don't know why he's all like surprised.
He's impressed.
Okay, I get it.
But he's all surprised and impressed.
You know the difference.
So he's watching the video.
You know how you basically the part where you're explaining where the work here, part
two.
Mark's Mission.
The logical bully, you know, did this thing and now Mark wants to fight and we can fight
now.
No, it's due to the same kind of one.
So I'm called Jake's like, you know, comes in and he's all, hey, cool.
You can fight them.
So I was like, okay, all right, I'm going to take you know, getting that's whatever.
Okay, you can fight them.
But first, you got to do recon or Intel, right?
Intel, gather whatever.
See what up.
And so he does and he finds out all this stuff, you know, and through like finding
the stuff, whatever he gains like a little bit understanding and whatever.
So instead of fighting them, maybe you should help them kind of thing.
So it's like this little curve bought.
It's like man, it's like kind of taking the high ground when you don't expect
to.
He does kind of like that.
He's all impressed.
He had an already pressed with it.
Not bad.
I'm not a meat that thing.
Still read it to my little girl.
That's Jack.
It's kind of the ethos, right?
The way of the worry kid ethos, you just read it.
You just keep read when you're done reading it, you read it.
You get started all over.
Yeah.
She likes it.
She liked the paper, Michelle Pumpkin.
Yeah.
Situation.
That was actually pretty fun.
Yeah.
It was good.
And also, I'm trying to figure it out.
Oh yeah, big toe.
Also the field manual.
Discipline equals freedom, field manual, best book ever written.
Best book physically look at my opinion back on black.
What do you think of that front cover for photograph?
Do you like that?
Yeah, you think.
Very iconic.
Footer.
Yeah.
That's a good one.
It's like Woody call, like a manual for.
If you make it a manual for life in general, I think you'd be on the good path right there.
I agree.
If you need a manual for some leadership, you got an extreme ownership.
That's the book that I wrote with my brother, Dave Babin.
And it's about calm, I leadership, and how you can apply it.
The lessons that we learn on the battlefield to everything you do in your business and
in your life and your relationships with people.
And also coming pretty soon actually is the fall of all of that book that I also wrote
with Dave, the dichotomy of leadership.
It is, you hear us talk about dichotomy all the time.
It's actually the last chapter of extreme ownership.
This is the trickiest thing about leadership is trying to balance this dichotomy.
So we talk about it and do deep dive and get granular on how to balance that dichotomy
of leadership in that book, which is titled, the dichotomy of leadership.
You can preorder it right now.
It comes out September 25th.
If you don't want to get a copy when it comes out, then don't order it now.
And you won't get one.
Because it's going to sell out and the publishers are slacking as usual.
No, but like, well, wait, but there's probably only a preta few of these because
you're connected.
Yeah.
The projected numbers are off always.
You want to get the, you want to get the first edition.
That's my opinion.
So do that.
And for all, for leadership training on site, beyond the books, beyond the podcast,
I have Eshelon front.
It's our leadership consulting company.
We solve problems through leadership.
Also we have the master, which is a leadership conference.
There's only one more.
This year, it's in San Francisco, Mr. 006.
It's October 17th and 18th.
You have to register for that at extremalnership.com.
Every master we've done has sold out this one will sell out to and also for current military
law enforcement, board of patrol, firefighters, paramedics, first responders.
We've got the role calls 001, September 21st in Dallas, Texas.
It's a focus one day leadership training seminar for people that are in uniform handling
stressful situations and you can also register for that at extremalnership.com.
And until we are live at the master in San Francisco or at the role call in Texas or at the
immersion camp in Maine.
Until then, if you want to cruise kind of hard with us, we are on the interwebs on Twitter,
on Instagram and yes on that baseball table.
Go to that atcliotrals and I am at Jockel Willink and thanks to all the people in uniform
out there, military police law enforcement, firefighters, paramedics, border patrol,
all first responders really.
We won't be able to do what we do without you doing what you do.
So thank you for protecting us and taking care of us and also thanks to your families who
support you while you support us and to everyone else.
Thanks for listening and remember what Vigadia said that it isn't just size or numbers or
even courage itself that will ensure victory instead.
It is exact observance of discipline.
That is what it takes.
That is what you need.
So go out there and get after it.
And until next time, this is echo and jockel out.